everybody's got their stuff whatever it
is everybody has a unique set of
variables that they can put in place and
express their individual identity in a
form of Pawlik greatness that's
something to be remembered that's what
you look for everybody welcome to impact
Theory our goal with this show and
company is to introduce you to the
people and ideas that will help you
actually execute on your dreams all
right today's guest is widely recognized
as the most influential street skater in
the history of the sport he invented
many if not most of the tricks used
today including the street ollie
kickflip 360 flip impossible and many
many others he began skating at the age
of 8 against his father's wishes and had
little more than the garage on the
family farm to practice in and yet he
would end up becoming the most dominant
competitor the sport has ever seen he
won his first championship at the age of
14 and over the next decade he won 34
out of 35 freestyle contests his impact
on the art and industry of skating
simply cannot be overstated and that's
why he's known today as the Godfather of
modern Street skating the Tony Hawk pro
skater franchise showed their reverence
by featuring his character for nearly a
decade additionally an acknowledgement
of his unparalleled level of innovation
the Smithsonian now hangs his board on
display and he was chosen for one of
their coveted professional fellowships
in addition to his contributions to the
craft of skating he's been just as
influential on the business side of
things
he holds two patents for his
revolutionary skateboard and truck
designs and his current company almost
skateboards which he co-founded in 2003
has been thriving for 15 years already
prior to that he had co-founded World
Industries the most successful skate
company of the 90s his insights into the
nature of progression itself has made
him one of the most sought-after
speakers on the topics of innovation
mindset and the staggering drive that it
takes to be great so please help me in
welcoming the two-time TEDx speaker and
member of the legendary Bones Brigade
the Godfather himself rodney Mullen
good to see you thank you so much for
being here
wow that was an intro that that is a
well-earned intro man and as somebody
who's been watching you since I was a
kid and desperately wanting to be able
to do the kinds of things that you do
but couldn't and wasn't able to break
through the things that hold me back I
want to start with an idea that I heard
you talk about which is the barrier of
disbelief what is it that holds people
back one thing that happens all the time
is skateboarding and the four-minute
mile aside it often happens best dudes
around the world can be striving after
wind particular trick finally one guy
does it and then the rest just come like
lemming rarely is it a question of
talent or technique at those levels it's
just one of the belief and the
concomitant will to kind of do something
that either no one's done before or even
more I think the crack opened the
barriers that people considered
impossible or undoable and that kind of
belief I think is rarer than Talent
talent is it's around and to having both
of those levels there's only a few
people that they really have that I
think in the history they're the ones
that have really changed things so how
can you build that sense of belief
that's the thing that I find so
fascinating about your story is I get it
when when you become part of Bones
Brigade and you're around all these
other guys and they're all pushing and
innovating I get how you guys get better
but all of them say that you were the
one that progressed the fastest but you
were the one that was almost always
isolated so how in that isolation on the
farm in Florida how are you able to
create that belief in yourself it is
easy to say and I think it's smothering
to say and often there's a culture of
saying that if if it cannot be proven it
must not be possible in the big takeaway
from that theorem is that there's lots
of things that cannot be proven though
they are correct and I think that this
idea too is scaling that
cuz we see things so often in front of
us the way that it should be done and it
imposes a kind of barrier through what
people know and see familiarity but
maybe you can change something within
you that can be just outside a new set
of axioms some new skill set they will
take you further and I think that's the
history of development certainly when
it's gaining yeah I want to talk about
when you sew freestyle essentially dies
becomes uncool which I want to talk
about the emotional loss of that in a
minute but for right now you decide that
you're gonna become a street skater
you're gonna reinvent yourself and one
what does that process look like and
then to how did you come up with the
idea to become formless where do I begin
with that freestyle was never cool and
when I made the turn it rode into the
ground I won so when you were in a
contest
that's good feels good especially the
first time after that you are protecting
this sort of only second place actually
there is no second place there's only
losing so contests were a big thing in a
number by your name that was important
so once you're on that treadmill you're
on it and it it militated against
progression because it forced me into a
pattern of consistency do this
best-in-show again and again and again
and again make this to me that's never
what drove me it's interesting how
getting what you think you want can end
up being the force that pushes you in to
paint yourself into a corner pushes you
into a groove there's something terrible
to be taught the mountain I'm the best
I'm the king guarding it under the
Nietzsche quote right what's left for
you when you make it at the top but
lightning you know so knowing that that
grain of sand by grain of sand progress
is so brutally difficult and it's hard
in anything but in skateboarding it
comes with broken limbs and
pain and I'm just an ungodly amount of
repetition people said used to practice
nine hours a day so what drove you
enough to keep pushing I'm easily used
you know when you're looking at
everything it's such a gift to be able
to look it's something and to love it
for the sake of it in nurturing and
maintaining that is one of the hardest
tests of any pro much less for anyone to
find right what is the Beethoven who
never found his piano or harpsichord or
right
enlike so for me I had an intuitive
yearning that skating was for me and
when I found these movements and the
little subtle things that no one was
pointing me telling them what to do
because I have such a visceral push
against being told what to do especially
for this you know for the joy of what
I'm doing you're gonna tell me what to
do I struggle with that there's days you
want to go out at her to you're sore or
you just suck you're not making progress
you're running into the and you feel
defeated like sometimes after filming
tricks it would be everything I could
not the morning turn my car off into
that you know what I mean like you take
it that personal but that's that's the
nature of love you know it's got hate in
there you know it's got pain in there
and it draws you to it that's the
magnetism that's what I guess I I have
that I've nurtured it in my life
I see people with talent with all those
things but the one thing they don't have
is that just love for doing it for the
sake of it in the sense of obligation to
do something with what you're given you
know there's something to there it's
important I think getting what you want
quenches the fire that got you there
often unless is something replaced by
something more
minute which becomes more intangible I
think the successes of winning right you
want to be the best in the neighborhood
and then win the local contest and then
whatever whatever its it just keeps
going up and then by the time you get
there you can have a stadium screaming
your name it's actually happened a
couple of times to me and there is a
visceral exhilaration to it there is
I've experienced that I know what that's
like you land a trick in theirs it just
lights up it's crazy but the same time
it's Harlow its Hollow that's not the
thing that can drive you at least not
for long
it's being able to say oh I had that I
had a model or I had people are there or
whatever all of these honors eventually
that stuff phased to just static and
you're left with you and your board and
if you decide that that's what you love
that's what you're doing then your days
are numbered so the trick is to always
peel back of why am I doing this in the
first place
oh yeah I still like I'm still that kid
on the farm you know and I cling to that
even the things that hurt like the
things that I grew up with the things
that still like I got issues you know
but i nurture them that's what gets me
out every night that's interesting tell
me more about that what do you nurture
that's funny you know I things were
great inside the house at home
everybody's got a story mine's not more
severe than the next guy everything's
relative I'm not saying I'm different
but there are things that fractured
something in there and for whatever it
is I got I need to get away and I got
some stuff that I need to work out and
skateboarding has always been that sort
of meditation and it's a meditation you
know like where you know I'm on a Mars
like like some of the
death metal you know what's the only
thing that sounds like music right I get
to heaven I expect that to be played at
the pearly gates because somehow it
connects with something in my soul or
some of the like stiff little fingers or
the things that there's tumult in there
because that's what's resonant for
what's inside and so I stay in tune with
that I nurture that because that's part
of what fuels me it's probably not
healthy it's not healthy we're not
something I gonna do with it why do you
say it's not healthy that a lot of
people would agree with you on that yeah
but why do you say it's not healthy and
then nurture it in yourself I think
because it leads people to do a lot of
stupid stuff like drink too much or take
drugs or fight or smash something you
know does it lead some people to be the
greatest of all time absolutely it
probably more than anything else like
everybody's got their stuff whatever it
is an ability to see patterns or some
genuine like there are guys like I know
not only guys like they do the big rails
and I'm fascinated by it
some guys have scared to death and they
overcome it anyway I guess you would
call that courage and for the life of me
they're at least a couple that their
eyes don't dilate they just know I know
one guy in particular so I go okay this
would you very robotic clay does it
commits first try it's nuts different
skill sets do things for different
people put being is the beauty of
skating of all things all shapes sizes
for the most part it's this admixture
it's everybody has a unique set of
variables that they can put in place and
express their individual identity in a
form of call it greatness that's
something to be remembered that's what
you look for no question one thing that
I want to talk about is so over time you
had these injuries where your femur was
grinding into your hip and basically
they just said wanted to hang it up and
now is the time but instead of doing
that you spent years if I'm not mistaken
breaking the scar tissue apart and
insanely painful fashion walk us through
that what was that what was the process
how long did you stick at it yeah that
was heavy you know I remember I used to
talk to Tony a lot because we're you
know he's close he's a Tony Hawk at hot
yeah he's good as people come isolde
smart and I had scar tissue that somehow
got around the joint and so every time
he'd flex muscles and the biggest ones
in your body it would pull the femur
into the socket and it would grind maybe
20 times a day turnover when you're
sleeping whatever again brake to
accelerator you'd feel a little and it
was worse and worse to the point where
you couldn't fall unroll and she can't
fall and rolled and what do you get you
can't escape and I went to the doc and
flew me to East Coast a couple pictures
friend and he said with his eyes what he
wouldn't say in words because he cared
for me so much it gave me this little
tool basically they can't cut you open
because there's so much that generates
more so what do you do this is what
retires people scar tissue and you've
got to the point what's gonna grind off
the head and any bones grinding it'll
calcify and stick right so that's what
was happening and I remember when it
stopped moving like a ball-and-socket to
more of a stick shift
so I'm hobbling around and things are
pretty dark for me and if you're a champ
if your whole identity is expressed
through what you do and then it's gone
will you become a mess a lot of people
do we see it right child actor first
thing in mind what is it and they showed
me that you can like a masseuses elbow
the fascia fasciae the pressure on is
the only thing to deactivate it so you
can pull a little bit so I started
sticking this little plastic thing I
started breaking on pasta curves which
are awesome
I would realize that it's relaxing stuff
and I can get my leg around particularly
fire hydrants because then they have
those they have the separate stems and
you could put them in you and they can
reach over and stretch and then get
leverage because I'm not that strong and
so then you can use your body weight as
leverage to pull things and then you
start to get to discern over this is an
hour to it a day and you use your
skating is like a micrometer when you're
walking you don't know your bounce but
if you're on a board or a tightrope you
know you're about and so I would pull
pull pull and I would find there are
strings you can tell it's not you you
know I I gradually pull this is after
hundreds of hours you get more courage
and you become everything you need to
know has already been said right it is
desperate people do desperate things and
necessity is the mother of all invention
all you need to know I was desperate and
I needed to break free and so I just
ratcheted it up and it takes a while to
get used to the pain but you keep it's
like all those karate guys kick in
bamboo you get tougher doesn't make you
tough but you get tougher do that that
is a crazy example of how driven you are
and how much this means to you and how
much it's become a part of you I mean
literally when I think about you hanging
upside down on the truck and that this
searing pain becomes a moment of joy for
you
it makes me ask one simple question
why'd you throw away your trophies hmm a
couple of reasons it's no disrespect to
people to have the trophy rooms you know
like I get that I do this is all like my
issues growing up the way I did I never
wanted to look at those dusty things and
say that's what I was good to ever have
the inclination to have point other
people do it say hey look what I was I
am what I am
you know because ultimately look at what
kids do now that stuff is irrelevant
cool you did a kickflip everywhere I
look they're doing it you know I need
kickflip Brooke
you know and look I'm all honored people
give me those respect but but but that
stuff moves on and I'm honored it's
unfortunate that I came in with those a
blank canvas and so I'm given credit I
thank you I appreciate it I do but the
joy I get that I could create some of
the vocabulary for others to express
themselves that gives me a connectedness
I think a lot of skaters are kind of
outsiders I think a lot of us are
outsiders even at least in some way
right you can always find something and
so that just means when you find a
connection with someone it means
something right because they don't come
easily
so I'm privileged that I created I
created I started a few some tricks and
then other people's have taken it more
and that's turned into a vocabulary for
us to express themselves
that to me is like a living trophy
because everywhere I look I see I feel
that but as for those things you're
number one number one for that like most
of those contests I didn't even give all
I had I just played it safe
those are representative of me being
conservative not doing what I could have
done because I just want to win because
I was afraid I looked at trophies like
that have you broken out of that desire
to just play it safe and win that helped
me I can't say that I'm cured
he would have been secure him all these
things you know what I mean put me in a
new arena and you know what I mean like
that's human nature were always fighting
I don't think anyone ever gets to the
top mountain and kind
hovers you know oh I'm enlightened you
know but I'm better I'm not as tethered
what lights you on fire outside of
skating a lot of things again the gift
to be easily amused when I couldn't
skate I went back because I have some
math background by methylation earring
whatever through chemical and it's like
how do I put this analytic stuff I have
it I didn't have to study as much for
some of the courses they're more
analytic then and I fell in love I love
puzzles skating is a puzzle I started
just building computers and playing
around and I was actually never fond of
computers but then we start building and
meriting out and that that's cool but
then that's just Legos and and then I
discovered Linux different operating
systems it's all rogue it's all open
source hacker community doesn't make you
evil it's just knowing something so well
they could use it in ways it was never
intended to be used and create something
new in the process I think well that's
true skating the whole time this culture
kind of rogue it's got some dark spaces
but it's got a lot of light and it's
greedy and it's Underground
and I connected with it and I fell in
love with that community and and yeah I
I still I think that stuff's cool you
know I do but there's lots of things you
know ultimately just people with
character I try to surround myself more
with age you spent so much time focusing
on being good at one thing in the
business that takes a lot of time and
then the friends you develop through
what you do if it's through sports
sports something that requires a strong
body that is it ticking time-bomb
then when you don't do that the friends
that you love and share this experience
in love it's a rare experience and there
is a brotherhood to an extent
overhyped in other ways but when you're
not skating with them you don't see each
other it's so finding friends of similar
character and heart that's important to
me I strive for that you know the
greatest thing that's ever happened I
think most humbling to make a wish if
you get called up a great great
foundation some poor dumb kid for
whatever specs by all the metrics of
modern science it's probably not going
to make it and so he gets a wish a lot
of kids are really young they don't know
if they're asking for one of the ladies
told me that one kid wanted to be a
superhero
so they dressed him up took around the
city he saw the crime they brought him
in the City Council meeting it you know
what I mean like the kids and when you
get the call from them then hey this is
some kid wants to meet you because dude
it's a reckoning because whatever you
think you've done that's cool in that
light you realize it's not it's not you
are officially a fraud I escaped I roll
around I do tricks all right
I do maneuvers what is that magicians
and prostitutes do tricks
and you go meet these kids and I'm
terrified
it's always the parents they see you
first cuz they're waiting outside the
hospital and you're like ah it's
embarrassing cuz you're an adult you
know that he's looking at you and go to
you and I'm like your kid but it's
actually not that way because they meet
you with these loving eyes like I don't
give a crap who you are my kid wants to
see you make you wait at a hospital room
there you choked up thinking about like
depends sometimes cancer attacks people
and they kind of seem fine depending
what system it's attacking they're all
gonna die for the most part one most
memorable to me mom had this white
blonde hair I get in and they're
unplugging the kid and he's so excited
he's jumping out of the bed right and
the nurse is getting scared because hey
what's this stuff you know and he just
runs and jumps into my arms and all the
anticipation of you're an idiot you're
not it just goes away because ultimately
what it boils down to is this was to
meet you you just become like a
lightning rod or something he loves
92 dad like so you talk about stupid
stuff you know favorite pizza favorite
tricks whatever but you share this
unspoken connection and whatever he
thinks you are that stuff vanishes
because it becomes what you are in the
moment what kind of man are you
and are you able to be there and that is
something that I take with me with age
with success that what you do in these
reflexive couplings shapes you you shape
it it shapes you you don't disconnect
from there
you just tumble forward over time you
become what you do and you find
hopefully at the end of that process
you're not insufferable that you
actually have something to give it can
be present you know so for all I've done
I appreciate I don't look at it as much
it's a long time ago
I go out like believe me I'm going out
after this I'm going out tonight and
I'll go out because I have something
right now I can do I'm close if I do
something if I get it
I'll film something and I don't mean
everything to me and I will but
ultimately it just goes out there it's
just what you do you just become one
with that I think that's been a key for
me of why I've been able to sustain this
fire that's so seemingly easily quenched
you know so when I see people who have
had success
I see boredom for the most part in them
and then I see a tombstone and circling
back to what trophies and those things
represented right Fineman great
physicists said that is the Nobel Prize
would be the tombstone on all great work
just look at it I haven't done the study
of Academy Awards right but usually when
you get what you thought you wanted the
fire goes away so if there's anything
just find joy in what you do for the
sake of it and then recognize how you're
being shaped in the process and
hopefully you become a better man
through you know I mean that is
astonishing
thank you so much for sharing that
before I ask my last question tell these
guys where they can find you online oh
I'm so addictive easily amused by nature
I won't allow myself to have the apps um
just I know my name it's out that he
type into Rodney Instagram whatever
there it's out there cuz I R I said to a
manager he posed okay
alright perfect we'll put links in the
show notes
okay my final question what's the impact
that you want to have on the world I'm
honored to have had the rippling impact
that I have helped formulate the
language of a community where others can
help shape and express themselves in a
process and connect that to me for
people like me that doesn't come easily
but ultimately I want to be a good man
you know you ever hear that goofy
internet thing you've found it so stupid
stuff that people send you can you name
the last Nobel Prize winners and
Olympians right but you can name the
fifth-grade teacher they had faith in
you right it's the people you touch
singularly
that's a bigger test in a way thank you
so much for coming in absolute
incredible guys there are a few people
that I've stalked as hard as this man to
get him on the show there's something
about the way that he thinks the way
that he looks at the world and what he
has accomplished in the past and what I
think he will continue to accomplish in
the future it is utterly breathtaking
and the the level to which he is driven
by obsession by desperation of his own
admission that there are just things
that he absolutely must may come true in
his life and I resonate with that so
much and I hope that you guys do as well
and the notion of turning inward the
notion of shutting out the noise and
going inside of yourself to create to
build something new to break through the
barriers of disbelief to be able to
create in your mind a willingness to
believe that you can do something that
is possible for me is the ultimate
intoxication it's the ultimate thing
that each of us should try to be chasing
and then to have that wrapped inside
somebody who's
only finish line is to be a good man is
pretty extraordinary this is one of
those people I know he issues social
media but go out he's done some
interviews they are breathtaking read
his book mutt how to learn skateboarding
without killing yourself in it are life
lessons there's just no other way to put
it and they are extraordinarily
beautifully shared raw and something
that I think you will all be able to
take something away from all right if
you haven't be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care everybody thank you so much
for watching and being a part of this
community if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe you're going to get weekly
videos on building a growth mindset
cultivating grit and unlocking your full
potential